# DS-4003-Final-Dashboard-
https://ds-4003-final-dashboard.onrender.com/

The first step of the dashboard building process was to decide the purpose of my dashboard and what kind of people would utilize it. I created User Personas to understand my dashboard user better so I could cater the functionality to their needs. This is a part of user research, which is a very important element of UX design. The next step was to find the data that would populate the dashboard. I found Fitbit User exercise data on Kaggle and merged that with my personal Fitbit exported data to create one dataset using pandas in Python.  The next step was to use Canva to visualize the layout of the dashboard and figure out what types of graphs and charts would be most useful to include. I considered data design elements such as layout, color scheme, font type, animation, tabs, and interactive components to ensure that the UI was appealing and made the dashboard easy to use. Then, I started coding my dashboard using Dash in Python. I started by creating a very simple layout of an app and by adding in one graph at a time. I used both Plotly and Plotly express to create line graphs, pie charts, histograms, and animated line charts. I also used Dash Table to create a data table and downloadable csv file. Next, I added in callbacks to make the graphs interactive and connected to the radio buttons and dropdowns. The final step was to add in tabs to make navigation of the dashboard easier and improve the UI design. This was a very iterative process and took a lot of trial and error to get the dashboard to its finalized, complete state. It was a great learning experience and although difficult, was made a lot easier by doing each part of the dashboard separately and then piecing everything together. This project taught me a lot about UI and UX design, coding in Dash, creating Plotly objects (both animated and not), and using html and css, all of which are very valuable and applicable skills.
